# The Family Database

Celeste Dupont
Rockville, MD

## My Project
### Background

I have a large family - my mom is one of 10 siblings and my dad is one of 7 siblings. 
In my mom's family, we have a large word document that my uncle manages which contains every 
person's information - birthday, phone numbers, address, email addresses, website, anniversary, 
etc. Whenever there is a change (someone moves or has a baby or gets engaged), everyone is 
responsible for emailing my uncle, he makes the changes to the word document, and emails an 
updated version to the family. This document is a great reference, however there are many issues 
with the system.

- Relies on one person to make updates and send to the family. There are a lot of family members 
(over 100 and growing!) so there are a lot of updates to keep track of.
- May not always have the most up to date information due to lag time between sending an update, 
my uncle making the change and sending to the family.
- Prone to errors - as an example, my fiance was recently added to this list and his last name was 
misspelled, resulting in us getting several Christmas cards addressed to the incorrect name.
- Difficult to manipulate data in a word document, as opposed to another format such as Excel.

When trying to come up with an idea for my final project, I thought this was a great problem to 
solve! I hope to implement this so that I can relieve my uncle from all of the work he currently 
has to do to keep this database up and running.

### The Final Product

My final project is "The Family Database" website. This website pulls personal information for each 
member of my family from a SQL database and displays it in a easy to view format. Each member of the 
family will be invited to create an account so that only approved family members are able to view the 
information and make changes. When you arrive ont he website, the user will be prompted to login or 
will be given the option to register. Once logged in, there are 4 pages available using the navigation 
bar.

Note: For demonstration purposes, all personal information has been removed and only initials are shown 
in the video submitted.

#### Homepage
This page displays a photo of the family and a table of all current announcements. The announcements 
table is generated by making a query to one of the tables in the SQL database, and selects all rows 
where there is an announcment present. The table then displays the name and announcement for those rows.

#### Family Tree
This page uses the graphviz library to generate a family tree of all current family members. In order to 
generate this visualization, each person in the database is identified by 'person2' and 'relationship'. 
All relationships are defined in relation to my grandfather who is defined as the 'root' of the family 
tree. From there everyone is either identified as 'spouse' or 'child' of some other person in the family 
tree.

For example:
- My grandmother is identified as 'relationship': 'spouse' of 'person2': '1' (the id of my grandfather)
- My mother is identified as 'relationship': 'child' of 'person2': '1' (the id of my grandfather)
- My dad is identified as 'relationship': 'spouse' of 'person2': '92' (the id of my mother)
- I am identified as 'relationship': 'child' of 'person2': '92' (the id of my mother)

Additionally, I added some color-coding to the family tree, so that the node of direct relatives will appear 
green, in-laws will appear blue, and anyone who is deceased will appear grey.

#### My Info
On this page, the currently logged in user can view and update their own information. Updating information 
here will directly commit changes to the SQL database.

#### Lookup
On this page, you can lookup the information of anyone in the family by searching by first name and/or last 
name. When a name is entered, a table is generating showing all matching people in the database along with 
their birthday to help distinguish individuals with the same name. The user can then select which person they 
are interested in viewing and a profile page for that person will be generated.
